/************************************************************************
Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) MCNC, Clearinghouse for Networked Information Discovery and
Retrieval, 1994. 

Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and
its documentation, in whole or in part, for any purpose is hereby granted
without fee, provided that

1. The above copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all
copies of the software and related documentation. Notices of copyright
and/or attribution which appear at the beginning of any file included in
this distribution must remain intact. 

2. Users of this software agree to make their best efforts (a) to return
to MCNC any improvements or extensions that they make, so that these may
be included in future releases; and (b) to inform MCNC/CNIDR of noteworthy
uses of this software. 

3. The names of MCNC and Clearinghouse for Networked Information Discovery
and Retrieval may not be used in any advertising or publicity relating to
the software without the specific, prior written permission of MCNC/CNIDR. 

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTY
OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. 

IN NO EVENT SHALL MCNC/CNIDR BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL,
INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER
RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR
IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE. 
************************************************************************/

--------------------------------------------------------------------------
This material is based on work sponsored by the National Science
Foundation under Cooperative Agreement No. NCR-9216963.  The Government
has certain rights in this material. 

Any opinions, findings and conclusions or recommendations expressed in
this publication are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect
the views of the National Science Foundation.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

The BER utilities are subject to the following copyright:

/*
(c)1992 OCLC Online Computer Library Center, Inc., 6565 Frantz Road, Dublin,

Ohio 43017-0702.  OCLC is a registered trademark of OCLC Online Computer

Library Center, Inc.


NOTICE TO USERS:  The BER Utilities ("Software") has been developed by OCLC

Online Computer Library Center, Inc.  Subject to the terms and conditions set

forth below, OCLC grants to user a perpetual, non-exclusive, royalty-free

license to use, reproduce, alter, modify, and create derivative works from

Software, and to sublicense Software subject to the following terms and

conditions:



SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED AS IS.  OCLC MAKES NO WARRANTIES, REPRESENTATIONS, OR

GUARANTEES WHETHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED REGARDING SOFTWARE, ITS FITNESS FOR ANY

PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OR THE ACCURACY OF THE INFORMATION CONTAINED THEREIN.



User agrees that OCLC shall have no liability to user arising therefrom,

regardless of the basis of the action, including liability for special,

consequential, exemplary, or incidental damages, including lost profits,

even if it has been advised of the possibility thereof.



User shall cause the copyright notice of OCLC to appear on all copies of

Software, including derivative works made therefrom.

*/

The MARC utilities are subject to this copyright:

/*
 * Copyright (c) 1992 The Regents of the University of California.
 * All rights reserved.
 *
 * Author:	Ray Larson, ray@sherlock.berkeley.edu
 *		School of Library and Information Studies, UC Berkeley
 *
 * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
 * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
 * are met:
 * 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
 * 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
 *    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
 * 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
 *    must display the following acknowledgement:
 *	This product includes software developed by the University of
 *	California, Berkeley.
 * 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
 *    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
 *    without specific prior written permission.
 *
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND
 * ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
 * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
 * ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
 * FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
 * DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
 * OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
 * HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
 * LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
 * OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
 * SUCH DAMAGE.
 */

